art is not life  life is not art you know why because art  is work  there was a very telling comment from  the youtuber hiding in my room so if you  don't know who hiding in my room is the  most recent video i made was actually  about his his youtube channel and to  give credit to hiding in my room he is  very honest honestly he's a terrible  human being horrible person ethically  horrible person intellectually horrible  person emotionally there are a lot of  things wrong to do but he is honest  talking about his talking about his life  and i remember him saying very honestly  on camera that because of his youtube  channel and because of his fleeting fame  on youtube he got above uh 100 000  subscribers at one point  but of course the actual number of views  per video he has is much much much lower  than that  he said that because of his youtube  channel he had ruined his relationship  with his wife who became his ex-wife he  had ruined his relationship with his few  friends and colleagues which i know to  be true and he'd even ruin his  relationship with his own mother and  sister i think his his his few family  members he was speaking to that really  he had made enemies out of his friends  and there are other ways in which he  ruined his life and also he made it  impossible to get a job  made it possible for himself to get a  job i should say he'd made it impossible  for himself to get a new girlfriend  because he's so notorious and he's  spoken honestly about his sex life and  internet blah blah blah um  you know but then he wrapped up this  series of recriminations by saying  but if he had the money in the bank it  would all be worth it because he'd be  able to point to this pile of money in  his bank account and say well i screwed  up all your lives and to some extent he  screwed up his own life but  he has the money to show for it and in  the end financially he really had  nothing you know that actually he  doesn't have a pile of money coming out  if he had this fleeting period of fame  and he has no money to show for it ah so  on a really deep level this comes back  to my first  piece of advice in this video only do it  if it is worthwhile for you  even if you fail right like if you  really feel it's worth it without  making any money that's a whole  different ball game right that's a whole  different thing if you think it's really  worthwhile to come on camera or you know  to sing your song whatever that song may  be or to create that that content and  you are willing to embrace failure for  the sake of that art form for the sake  of that message uh for the sake of the  short films you will be making because  don't kid yourself youtube is filmmaking  you know if you a really bad job  you're just a really bad filmmaker but  it's still filmmaking you can't escape  that right now i think you know melissa  might not have the same kind of lesson  in mind when talking about  dax flame as i do so i've made a few a  few videos uh pointing the finger at dax  flame  um dax flame's initial success was  effortless he was a guy who just came on  camera and was shy and awkward and you  know  um said outrageous things about his own  life and he effortlessly achieved a  certain level of success and now  his youtube channel instead is a  terribly belabored failure no matter how  hard he works he can't succeed and it's  worse because of the effort he's put  into it so look i got to think about  this in my own life also right is this  worth doing is this worthwhile for me to  put in so many hours and get absolutely  nothing out of it youtube is a job  youtube is filmmaking if you put in  minimum effort  it's still filmmaking you're just doing  really bad filming so are you willing to  commit to doing this job where the  outcomes are completely uncertain it's a  really hard line to walk in some ways  this is new and in some ways it's not  imagine if you were writing a book in  the 18th century what are the odds your  book is going to be read by anyone other  than your own friends and family now in  the 18th century there was a lot of  money in book printing it's very  different from from printing books today  but you can research and publish a book  and during your lifetime absolutely  nobody pays attention to it it doesn't  change the world in any way a lot of  people talk about  copernicus all right  when copernicus died when copernicus was  on his deathbed during his last day  alive he didn't think he changed the  world okay copernicus published in latin  okay and his book was not suppressed or  censored by the catholic church there's  an understandable assumption that it was  nope  it just wasn't successful  nobody cared  now  after his death  a small number of people uh primarily  people who actually made their um made  their living doing astrology  so doing fortune telling based on the  positions of the stars noticed his book  and started caring about it and then a  small number of people who were in a  very very technical disciplines related  to the positions of the stars because  they saw that his book actually produced  more accurate  uh calculations that you could do math  based on the movement of the planets the  planets relative to the stars i believe  that were more accurate using copernicus  approach so a few dozen people kept this  from being totally ignored and then as  you as you may know eventually it was  involved in a massive controversy with  the catholic church by a guy named  galileo  um  okay but  copernicus died he didn't get money fame  power respect within his own lifetime  you know he didn't change the world did  your parents tell you to be like  copernicus you know  don't be like copernicus nobody wants to  be like a particular if you admit to  yourself that youtube is filmmaking that  it's work that it's a career even though  it's a career with incredibly uncertain  outcomes we can put in a ton of input  and get absolutely no  output then you've got to start making  really strategic intelligent decisions  about the extent to which you are living  your life in order to produce content on  youtube and the extent to which your  youtube content is just a kind of side  effect of what it is you're doing in  your life anyway  it's a tightrope it's a very i mean some  of you may have never thought of this  before and on the other hand some of you  after hearing this might realize that  your own job your own career  may resemble this in some way we could  say this with politics  to what extent do you let politics take  over your life to what extent do you  live for politics what extent do you  live for political activism and to what  extent you just live your own life and  you happen to own pasol you happen to in  passing you know uh be making some kind  of political change political difference  occasion and political activism art is  not life  life is not art you know why because art  is work  filmmaking is work but in one of the  simplest examples is uh the book review  as a format so i already do book reviews  on youtube and they're wildly unpopular  so let's be real here this is another  great example of failure on my channel  but i feel it's really important so it's  time to do it incredibly low numbers for  my live stream from one week ago of uh  who killed martin luther king jr okay  it's a book review about the  assassination of martin luther king jr  so you know the level of detachment i  have to have even by my own my own  youtube channel standards that's a  terrible failure so the video  immediately before that i forget it was  a day or two before but i upload so  often you know  a day or two before that i had a video  with 1 100 views a day or two before  that i have a video with 1 000 views  okay but my book review on the  assassination of martin luther king jr  has 424  views  now in addition to the hours that went  into making that video  the video was one hour and five minutes  long  there are the hours that go into reading  the book and there are some number of  uncountable hours otherwise building up  my acumen knowledge and experience in  politics and history okay and it is  completely fair and reasonable for  anyone to look at that and say no no my  dude for 424 views it's not worth it  it's not you know again it's not just  about money right you you sing your song  because you you want people to hear it  you know how many hours are you going to  put into recording your next rap album  composing it  recite reciting it rehearsing it  all the instrumental parts the vocals  going to the studio right how many i was  going to put into that is it worth it if  424 people hear it there are people who  are going to listen for 60 seconds and  go oh this guy isn't left-wing  or he's not left-wing enough  and close it they're only interested in  hearing a far left wing perspective and  believe it or not there will be some  people who click on that video hoping  for a right-wing perspective hoping for  some kind of far-right concern  a significant number out of that tiny  number of views out of 424 views a  significant number of people  still don't want to hear it they clicked  on the video but they don't want to hear  it if you upload your rap album to  soundcloud  even if you get 424 clicks  how many of those clicks actually listen  to your album how many of them thought  they wanted to hear it and then figure  out oh no this is really not what i want  to hear the question you've got to  ask yourself is  um  [Music]  am i reading this book  in order to present a book review on  youtube  or am i reading this book anyway and  then as a kind of funny by-product  i'm going to make a youtube video  talking about it we had a question  earlier on about my relationship with my  girlfriend i've made a lot of videos  talking about this uh just lately but  what the one i'm thinking of in  particular oh yeah stuff like ninety  percent of people are stupid and malign  uh stuff like our abusive relationship  with the audience and seven years of  sexual harassment on youtube okay like  at my incredibly low level of fame  right i i've said this many many times  what i have is micro fame microfame has  all the disadvantages of fame with none  of the advantages  [Music]  [Laughter]  [Music]  can you tell what it is yet  [Laughter]  let's bring it out here  oh that's good i shall call him  mini-me  dr evil and minnie me gaines  it's a vegan cheetah  so yeah hope you like it  it's going on the wall even if you think  you can rationalize doing youtube as a  byproduct of the life you're living  anyway it's an incidental thing you say  okay well i'm going to take the time to  read this book anyway so i might as well  share  my one hour my one hour lecture about  this political issue  uh as a byproduct of reading the book i  might as well have the practice of  talking through the issues raised in the  book and share it and even if only a few  dozen people appreciate it that that's  still worthwhile well guess what it  comes at a price it comes at a cost that  lasts for the whole rest of your life  you know what let's let's peel away real  if you just go to my channel and search  for the word only fans you'll get my  videos talking about that it is it is  fundamentally similar to doing  pornography now i mean what i do is not  pornography but anyway if you search for  the word only fans in my channel you're  gonna see a series of videos talking  about this if you are basically a  nihilistic atheist person you don't  think there's anything evil about the  naked body you don't think there's  anything evil about sex okay so i do i  do have a playlist for this so i'll  share the playlist of you guys you know  there's nothing evil about being naked  there's nothing evil about having sex  off camera there's nothing evil about  having sex on camera i'm even gonna take  a further step here i don't think  there's anything evil about sharing a  recording of you having sex with another  person who wants to see it you know  sharing it with someone unsolicited  that's another  you don't want to interrupt a complete  stranger's lunch showing them an image  of you or a videotape of you having sex  but you know if it's all consenting  adults right okay but the problem is  right there are these terrible long-term  costs there are these terrible long-term  repercussions and there are incredibly  few lines of work you can be in it  limits what you can do politically also  if you've been a porn star in the past  what can you do in any industry even  including hollywood even including the  acting industry how can you any kind of  legitimate work even as an actor let  alone as a university professor or a  politician um or a stock broker or  anything else how many people in the  united states of america are willing to  have a medical doctor who was a former  porn star  i wish i could say we lived in a society  where people would just be oh yeah you  know it's funny you know my my  obstetrician she actually used to be a  porn star oh yeah do you remember where  she used to go by the name dusty  diamonds or something you know like  whatever her name was oh yeah and now  you know now now presumably she's not dr  dusty diamonds  presumably  you know now she's the medical thought  and obviously the amount of money people  make doing porn could make it much  easier to go through university and  become you know  so the point is um  even an undertaking as humble and pious  as this  of saying hey i am going to read this  book anyway so i might as well share  what i know about this book or what i  have to say about this book of the world  just  i totally support that right but in a  lot of ways this is actually similar to  the leap you are taking  in deciding to become a porn star decide  to do porn whether that's on only fans  or on or on some other websites it has  terrible long-term repercussions for you  uh for the rest of your of your life you  could upload content that's totally  ignored you could upload content that's  so successful that it changes your life  for the better forever like you're in  the tiny percentage of content creators  like the amazing atheist  or tana mongeau or something right  but there's a middle range of success  where you are successful enough to ruin  your life you're successful enough to  have all the disadvantages of fame but  not to have any of the advantages  [Music]  do you guys remember aaron janus  what is aaron janice going to do for the  rest of her life  you know what i mean she doesn't have  anything okay i was going to say she  doesn't have anything embarrassing on  the internet  i'm wrong there are some really  embarrassing things  she is not known for she is not famous  for anything really really terribly  embarrassing you know what i mean you  know i i don't know how she's doing i  genuinely don't know but is she now  going to become a you know is she now  going to become a  bartender is she going to become a  waitress you know what what is she going  to do with the rest of her life is she  going to become a medical doctor or a  lawyer you know what how is she going to  survive  a great example that also is snl o'neill  someone like s and o'neill again to my  knowledge based on the interview she did  she went from this brief period of fame  and relative affluence  that she said she was just scraping by  to being uh completely ugly  ignominious  and um scraping by as a waitress doing i  believe was specifically waitressing  doing minimum wage jobs in her brief  period as uh her brief period as a model  and social media influencer so you know  look  um i hate to tell you this  these are normal examples i i you know  we talked before about well it's very  improbable that you will ever be as  successful as aaron janus it is very  improbable you will ever be as  successful as essen o'neill  right  but it's almost entirely certain that  you'll have all the disadvantages in  your life that aerojanus and estonia  have you will have frankly the same  level of sexual harassment you will have  the same number of stalkers you will  have the same number of people making up  stories about you on the internet  forever you know and it will haunt you  and you will be punished um you know  frankly by by large numbers of mentally  disabled people for the rest of your  life and you never you never get to  escape just look at his channel there's  no purpose to it whatsoever it's just  him pretending to be an intellectual and  talking about other people's lives  and for whatever reason he puts bikini  photos of female youtubers in his  thumbnails  as soon as i start holding back  my  finger immediately stops hitting the a  button i don't  know why  if it is he would be doing videos about  the vegan diet and stuff like that i  mean vegan gains does videos about the  vegan diet dr sean baker does videos  about the carnivore diet and as for me  i'm a feminist  [Music]  [Music]  does videos advocating for women on my  channel  but with isil there's just no main  purpose to his channel it's just him  making generalizations about random  topics so melissa please break up with  this narcissistic sociopathic fake  intellectual  okay  now i do not feel um any  ambivalence about this decision i don't  feel any ambiguity about it and there  are a lot of reasons for that that have  to do with direct experience of adding  my own life  the video i made again i can give the  link again but the video i made about  the assassination of martin luther king  jr i have known so many intellectuals i  have known so many university professors  not a single one of them could have made  that video not one like when i think  back to the professors i had at the  university of toronto i want to thank to  the professors i knew in  [Music]  cambridge england where i think the  professors i knew at uh  psoas university of london i've known  professors oliver i knew professors in  asia obviously the professors i knew in  thailand or cambodia or something you  know what i mean by the way sorry i can  also talk about the intellectuals i knew  when i was working in the publishing  industry started to mention i don't know  a single person who could get on the  microphone  with or without preparation i mean you  guys know i did that unscripted and  could really break down those issues and  talk about them in that in that useful  way so i feel pressure on me  i feel that it's like if not you then  who i feel like if i don't take on that  role i'm leaving something undone that  nobody else can do or that incredibly  few other people could do now sir  another thing i mean i've said this to  melissa lately about some of the content  we made together we've collaborated  listed on a bunch of videos and i've  said to melissa again and again i don't  know a single other youtube channel  where i can hear anything like this like  i  i can't say to you oh this is a really  great video just like this other channel  makes or oh this video reminds me of the  kind of thing i listened to on this  channel or from this podcast or even  from this book i don't know anywhere  else on the internet where i can hear  this kind of conversation the price is  real the cost to your own dignity is  real the negative impacts in every way  and guys look so look sorry i could talk  about this for hours some of you might  be automatically thinking about my  situation like five years ago conflict  with freely and durianrider and famous  youtubers okay i have conflict right now  i have conflict with other people who  rent apartments in the same apartment  building i do we went up and had lunch  with one of my university professors  and he talked about how other university  professors they all hate each other and  hate me and hate themselves the kind of  ridiculous teenage childlike conflict  going on within that university  department how do you think  my youtube fame my micro fame this small  scale of fame that has all the  disadvantages of family under the  defense how do you think that impacts  how those university professors see me  and how they talk to me and how they  treat me and how they fear me  that they really live in live in fear of  me the way so this is going on right now  most of the people who fear you most of  the people who hate you most people who  act in a vengeful and punitive way  towards you they're never going to be  public the way dorian writer was they're  never going to be public the way freelee  was they're going to be anonymous  faceless people and i don't mean trolls  on the internet i mean people living in  the same apartment building with you  working out at the same gym as you who  will talk [ __ ] about you behind your  back into your face i mean your  university professors your university  classmates the the backlash the price of  doing that is enormous but if you think  there's nobody who will hate you for  making a youtube video about  martin luther king jr  or uh jfk you know uh  john kennedy if you no people hate you  people fear you for real when i started  my youtube channel i knew right from the  start that sooner or later i was gonna  have to talk about pet ownership people  owning dogs people owning cats  and you know i kind of delayed it i was  also just busy with university i was  actually in university classes full-time  at that point so i'm attending classes  doing other stuff and people suggested  it to me too people said oh well look  you got to talk about the pet ownership  issue and stuff you know  and then the day i finally did it you  could hear this cracking noise as my  youtube audience split itself in half  and 50 of them left like no kidding and  the way youtube numbers worked at that  time you could see it you could see that  i had lost half my audience by being  opposed coming out and saying openly i'm  opposed to pet ownership  i'm opposed to vegans pretending that  petting zoos are morally a superior to  real zoos pretending that sanctuaries  and all this crap like like it's  something other than us running a zoo  you can call it a sanctuary it's still a  zoo like all these different shades of  you know animal exploitation that we  pretend our animal liberation because  it's us doing it not someone else when i  took that that moral stand you know you  could you could absolutely hear and feel  um  feel the audience turn against me or at  least half of them i didn't want the  largest audience possible i didn't want  the ten thousand viewers it was like  okay i'd rather have five thousand  viewers if they're five thousand viewers  who are really intelligent or really on  the same page as me you really want to  save the world and it's the same world i  want to save and they want to save by  the same means like this is this is what  i'm looking for frida says quote many  people take your videos as an insult  instead of as an opportunity to question  the topic well frida you know  there used to be a youtube channel  it was very successful and it was called  get upset and the hosts were called the  get upset girls  so the youtube channel was called get  upset and you know what i always have to  say about that is you know  some things are worth  getting upset over nacho says nacho's  female by the way funny the same thing  happened when i came out as auntie pet  owning but instead of an audience it was  half the people in my real life  disappearing so that's interesting she  had actual friends i'm guessing friends  relatives  colleagues and co-workers uh turned  against her uh just for being  just for being anti-pet so if you've  admitted to yourself that what you want  is to succeed you've admitted to  yourself you don't want this to be a  hobby that you want to be a career  these are hard things to be able to be  honest themselves about a lot of people  kid themselves about exactly these  things for years right  then we face the question of to what  extent  am i doing this as an art form as a job  even if it's completely unpaid even if  the outcomes are so uncertain and to  what extent am i just trying to  exploit my own autobiography as it  unfolds right like as like an incidental  art form no matter how lazy you are no  matter how little work you put into  making that youtube video the reality is  that the punishment inflicted on you for  being a public intellectual for just  for just being a public figure no matter  how you know no matter how little fame  or money you may get out of it it's so  severe that you you you can't possibly  justify it that way you can't think oh  i'm just going to live my life  and then i'm going to make youtube  videos with the books i happen to read  no you have to face up to the fact that  one way or another you've committed to  the path of being a filmmaker even if  you're a really lousy really lazy really  low quality filmmaker and that you are  doing something in making a book review  even you're doing something that will be  appreciated by some people it may be 10  people it may be 15 people but by the  same token  you will be hated for it and that's  legitimate maybe by 10 people maybe by  15 people maybe by a much larger number  of people you can't take that away from  the audience so i've already said this  like you know uh regarding the concept  of get upset and some things are worth  getting upset over okay what if people  find what you have to say about martin  luther king jr really egregiously  offensive and what if they didn't  understand you correctly what if they've  misunderstood what you said you can't  take that away from the audience right  you would say the same about being a  stand-up comedian or being a rapper  people in the audience may intensely  hate you it's not about probability this  is a certainty this is an inevitability  even if your videos reach just 400  people right a significant number of  those people will  hate you for having dare to produce the  content that you have produced and that  can include people who live in the same  apartment building with you people who  are at the same university you're going  to people who are in a position of power  at your workplace or at your university  the way these professors are in a  position to actually try to bully and  intimidate and harass me and make my  life worse so i'm saying that out of  these two paths you really inevitably  and inexorably have to commit to being a  serious filmmaker and thinking of it as  filmmaking so i'm going to come back to  this example of doing a food channel  and a lot of people  a lot of people get into this oh they're  going to do reviews of food products  they're going to do reviews of  restaurants and they think of it as this  hobby that they're going to do on the  side because they eat food anyway they  eat in restaurants anyway right and they  they're they're kind of making the wrong  choice at every stage like oh and it's  completely inevitable that they will  become as famous as trisha paytas or  nicocado avocado they think oh well you  know there are a lot of these big  successful channels and they only think  about the positive outcomes and they  they kind of commit to in their mind's  eye a fantasy life where they're  effortlessly going to get much more in  the way of rewards than costs and  disadvantages it never occurs to them  once if you do one restaurant review  that's negative do you know how many  people will hate and resent you for that  hate you  intensely hate you we did one video  about the restaurants of detroit and ann  arbor vegan restaurants in detroit and  melissa is laughing you forgot did you i  didn't forget okay every single person  who worked inside those restaurants saw  the video and they wrote to us there was  one uh dessert we were given  and i just i just said it in passing you  were talking about it and like i just  said yeah that was trash that was  garbage and the guy wrote he said well i  am the baker employed in that restaurant  and i made that cake or pie that you  said it was garbage you think you don't  make enemies doing food reviews you know  you think you don't make enemies doing  book reviews yes you do and some of  those people who become your enemies  they are the stupidest ugliest people on  earth they're exactly the people you  ignore  every day at work every day at the  coffee shop every day on the university  campus i don't what i don't regularly  watch abbas l concept i used to follow  uh  doing running regularly no i'm not being  i just find this stuff i did find this  stuff and staying but i don't really  watch don't write it that much now but  yeah at baseless ciel  he comes from a wealthy background the  skis are wealthy jewish background i  think  he can go anywhere he wants and he's  also a lecturer  courtesy of uh his family money  you know with your connections  you can go to uni you can have  more opportunities of life than the  average show like what  i mean spouts on about stoicism  philosophy  language whatever whatever stuff  that most people have the time to  ponder and they just want to play  computer games play  well what's what's  computer games about okay  well gambling's worse  drinking's worse  doing drugs is worse  um  and if you're not  wealthy you can't afford to go on  holidays and if you're like from a  lower class background  and there ain't much to do apart from  walking  going for a jog you've got all you have  is pub exercise  and mirror games  i'm gonna dwell on this for one moment  okay  when you deal with people face to face  you disproportionately deal with people  who have a very high level of  self-confidence because otherwise they  wouldn't step to you they wouldn't say  [ __ ] to you face to face okay when i am  on university of victoria campus  the women who talk to me and the men who  talk to me i mean i almost feel like i  can deal with men separately because it  is a little bit different but the men  and women who talk to me are the most  self-confident people on the campus they  are the sharpest people like  intellectually they're sharp they may  not be deep they may not be like they  may be incredibly ignorant and crass but  they're sharp they have a certain kind  of alertness or acumen right and they  are  almost without i just know i think  without exception they're attractive  people right  and in the same classroom very often  literally hiding in the corner of the  classroom there are ugly stupid  self-loathing people with no  self-confidence and if you don't take  the time to talk to every single person  in the classroom you can do the whole  class and you didn't even notice they  were there you can do a year-long class  at university and someone says oh hey  man how did that class go was great it  was great it was great it's great great  great great class great class how many  people were in that class uh about about  15 students oh yeah okay name them uh  you know and you name all the oh yeah i  remember this guy and this guy and this  guy maybe don't remember their names  yeah yeah there was the there was a tall  guy and there was the fat guy who was  always telling jokes there was this guy  you're remembering the most intelligent  most self-confident people those are the  people who actually talked in class  those people actually talked to the  professor and those are the people who  came over and talked to you no one says  oh do you remember do you remember the  mopey ugly stupid guy in the corner no  oh oh you don't you don't remember no he  never said one word he didn't say one  word to the professor it didn't say one  word to me oh well guess what he hates  your guts and he is on your facebook  profile and your instagram profile on  your youtube channel every day for the  rest of your life it is the people you  don't see because they make themselves  invisible with their own low self-esteem  in real life in the workplace on the  university campus who come on the  internet and make themselves impossible  to ignore those are the people who won't  just open one fake account they'll open  10 fake accounts so they can keep  sending you email and those people will  start their own youtube channels just to  hate on you and i am not joking it can  literally be a dude you were you were in  class with so that has happened to me  too i mean you guys probably know a lot  of my a lot of my haters are just people  who discover me through youtube but  there was one guy  who was on a hate campaign against me  for about five years who i knew in real  life face to face at university back at  the university of toronto now i could  tell his whole life story if i wanted to  but i remember and he deleted i think he  deleted everything yet against me at the  end of the internet but i remember  writing him like dude it's been five  years you know what i mean like what  what what the hell is wrong with you  that guy was pretty open with me he was  very unhappy with his marriage he's  older than i am uh he's very unhappy  with his marriage he's very unhappy with  his life uh he became vegan before i did  but not that long like i don't know if  you became vegan a year before me or  like i forgot or two years before me or  something but you know he really  resented the fact that i was being  celebrated as this kind of leader of the  vegan movement and he was a nobody and  he feels ugly and stupid towards it by  the way this is not my analysis it's his  analysis this guy i mean to his credit  he was pretty he was pretty honest about  his psychoanalysis of his own uh  resentment now you know the funny thing  was again i'm not saying too much about  this guy's life there actually a lot of  ways in which that guy's been very  successful  i could now list stuff a bunch of things  he's done successful that i've never  done in my life but i'm not jealous of  him you know he's uh  he's jealous of me i remember him saying  to me this was in a different context  this wasn't the conversation where i was  asking him to delete this kind of hate  campaign he had against me on a couple  different websites um on the internet  but you know i remember him uh saying to  me something like he said oh what i  would give to have one tenth of your  charisma  you know as i go through life and he was  really he was really self-hating and you  know he felt that you know uh nobody  appreciated him in life but my point is  this when i talk about this being a kind  of invisible  malevolent majority of people around you  they're invisible because you don't see  them they're invisible because they  don't make themselves seen they don't  make themselves heard i talk about the  university as an example well some of  you have never been to university how  about the gym a lot of you go to the gym  every day or a couple times a week so  you recognize all the people at your gym  right it's all regular people you see  the same people again again no you don't  no you know you recognize the most  intelligent the most attractive the most  self-confident people they only need to  have two out of the three there could be  someone at the gym who's really ugly but  they're self-confident and intelligent  and they chit-chat with you once in a  while so you remember that person you  don't have to be you don't have to be  all three you know what i mean but there  are self-loathing mopey shy people at  the gym there are people at the gym who  are really stupid there are people at  your gym probably who are mentally  disabled who have serious learning  disabilities trust me there are people  at the university even though it's a  university who have serious you know  disabilities that way and so mental  disabilities you know okay okay and you  don't remember them and you don't talk  to them and the internet is their turf  because it's the only turf they have to  defend that is part of the pathos and  the tragedy of the internet is that this  is where the stupid and the ugly and the  self-loathing among us take their  revenge and it will never end so we told  really briefly also the story of people  melissa has known since university maybe  in some cases they're people you've  known since high school too it's just  ridiculous sorry  you know if you were a friend of  melissa's in high school or university  why can't you be happy for her  why can't you be happy for you know why  do you have to like really i mean in  this case it's really hate it's really  hatred like it's not it's not hate in  the sense of like trolling comments or  something why do you have to hate this  person who's a kind of acquaintance of  yours but someone you knew to some  extent you know in high school  university why do you have to to be this  way towards you okay that's why okay  it's it's real resentment it's real  inferiority i said you before for me one  of the reasons why i would make that  book about martin luther king jr even if  it is hated or even if it's hated by 10  times as many people who  positively appreciate it like a thousand  people hate it and 100 people see it and  appreciate it over the next uh 10 years  i feel i have to do that because nobody  else can do it nobody else can give  voice to what i'm going to give voice to  and i know this is a for me this is a  relatively low effort video but you guys  can imagine there are some videos that  reflect years of work and years of life  experience so there's so much that goes  into it okay that's another story you  know that that too i feel i have to say  that because nobody else can say it well  guess what there are some really stupid  people in your audience there are stupid  ugly people who have no self-confidence  who are sitting watching that video  feeling they could never do this  themselves they could never say this  themselves they could never read the  book or if they do read the book they  could never understand it in this level  analyzing this level get this lecture on  this level right and guess what my own  university professors are like that so  right like at every level you know at  every level there are people who are  going to see this and respond to it that  way i would not even call this jealousy  i would not even call this envy i think  neither one of those is accurate well  the other thing that i was thinking is  that  similar to the man that you said had a  campaign against you for five years or  something like some of these people that  i've  interacted with like they've had more  success in a lot of ways yes they've had  study jobs right moved to big cities  under whatever heading  yep you know  they've lived  right  right okay so i don't want to speak for  melissa but melissa is saying that among  her haters this way people who hate on  her but who actually did know her in  high school university just as with my  example of this old friend of mine who  actually has published some books and  he's traveled around the world led  interesting life in different ways that  in some ways these haters they have had  successful lives right okay now this is  me speaking for myself that was me  paraphrasing  melissa okay right  but this  matters more  period right the reason why they're  jealous is that even if they can't  analyze it or think about it right  this matters more the life of the mind  always  matters more always  hey hey guys who went skiing who went  skiing last night who gives a [ __ ] if  you went skiing yeah there were a lot of  people i mean the people hating on  melissa a lot of them have been on a  whole lot of skiing trips  and you know what  reading aristotle matters more  understanding aristotle matters more  being able to come on camera and  actually give a charismatic intelligent  useful like a discussion of aristotle  that's actually useful to people in the  audience you know what that matters more  and it always did and it always will and  that's why they killed socrates and  people live their whole lives in the  shadow of the meaningful life they could  have had all right that all their lives  are haunted by the specter of the  intellectual achievement they were  capable of but that they never did  pursue and that's why they're gonna hate  you  i am reading all of your comments guys  thanks there's a lot of intelligent  comments here that could lead in a  number of different directions  okay so james james mkhimping has  this is a great great question sorry i  mispronouncing your name james mcpine  says  quote if people have spent 10 years  drinking  or 10 years being addicted to social  media or 10 years being addicted to  video games  how is it possible  for them to change  get rid of those desires and live an  intellectual life  you know james i'm just going to keep it  100 with you i feel like  the exact opposite is the question  you've got to ask if you've been doing  this for 10 years  if you spent the last 10 years playing  this video games  how can you not change  how can you not grow  how can you not have a desire for  something better  right and if you don't what does that  say about you so if you're a supporter  of mine on patreon you've seen the  message i got i removed the person's  name but a guy wrote into me saying that  he's now 37 years old  and after watching just one of my videos  for the first time in his life he's  thinking about quitting video games so  he's obviously played video games since  his childhood and he never saw it that  way before he never thought of it as  something he would ever quit and this is  a big change in his life and one of my  patreon supporters commented wow well  you know  it sure is one thing to quit playing  video games at 37  but  imagine if he had waited till 47 or 57  every year counts every day counts every  every decade counts but it it may seem  hard to change but it's really hard to  to stay the same take it all the way  back to the beginning  admitting to yourself that you want to  succeed admitting to yourself that you  want youtube to be your full-time career  i think step zero is to think about  failure  and to choose to create fair choose to  create content that will still be  meaningful to you still be rewarding for  you to create if you fail not just fail  in the end but you fail in the process  again and again and again i think that's  the the path you have to uh commit to to  this to this extent on this level um  in admitting to yourself that this is  something that you want to do you then  come to another fork in the road where  the question is am i going to start  living in order to create youtube videos  or am i just living my life and i regard  the youtube videos as an accidental  byproduct if you do book reviews did you  read this book so that you could talk  about it on youtube  or  is it just a book you happen to read  and i've explained to you at some length  i think you're engaged in a kind of  self-deception in thinking you can treat  youtube as something incidental because  of we talked about it in great depth and  great length because of really the  negative  backlash side effects consequences that  the decision to do youtube the decision  to be a filmmaker however unsuccessful  however lazily it is in some ways like  the decision to make pornography  something that fundamentally changes  your life it changes your relationship  with your own family with the other  people who live in your apartment  building with your employers past  present and future it changes your life  in such a fundamental way just like the  decision to do hardcore pornography or  something and to have your own name and  your own face attached to your hardcore  pornography that you can never justify  that sacrifice in terms of saying oh  well i'm just reading this book anyway  so i might as well do a youtube video  reviewing it no you have to take it  seriously as you're committing to an art  form you're committing to being a  filmmaker however unprofessional and  then you're setting aside part of your  life maybe not your whole life but part  of your life do that kind of filming if  you do restaurant reviews  are you  going to that restaurant  in order to review it  or are you reassuring yourself that this  is just a hobby  because you would have eaten in that  restaurant anyway so you might as well  make a review about it okay so now the  other uh we're gonna do this in less  than five minutes the other big subject  i wanted to open up it so you can see  this is kind of a branching diagram and  i'm telling you at several of the  branches one way is right and one way is  wrong so it leads to one one uh set of  conclusions  once you've you know made these  decisions that i've outlined here just  as  you're not going to be happy making rap  music that says the same things everyone  else's rap music says  again  if you're embracing failure you know of  course maybe you'll be happy making a  rap song says the same things all the  other rappers say if you're certain  you're going to make millions of dollars  and have millions of fans  millions of burpees whatever it is  whatever turns you on okay then you're  gonna  make a rap song that sounds the same as  all the other rappers and a lot of them  do but the point is if you were looking  at the very real prospect of failing and  failing and failing and even really your  only success is going to be many years  of failure for a very small audience you  have to focus on making a rap song that  nobody else is ever going to do  something that is meaningful and  rewarding enough in and of itself that  it's still worthwhile for you to put in  the time and effort to make that rap  song if only 500 people ever hear it  right so in in having uh said that and  having uh disclosed that there's this  higher level of commitment higher level  of creativity higher greater importance  of the uniqueness of the craft the  filmmaking irrigation then this brings  about another  incredibly important strategic problem  which is that if you're focused on only  making the videos that feature your  unique voice your unique perspective by  definition you are narrowing down your  audience to an incredibly tiny one both  your potential audience and your actual  audience so this is then the the balance  that you have to keep in mind okay  there is this issue of creating content  that is unique enough and meaningful  enough that it justifies your commitment  to creating it even if you fail  and then on the other hand there's the  challenge of creating content that  reaches out to new audiences reaches out  to new viewers to people you don't  already have people who don't already  know you and respect you that make them  unexpectedly get to know you and respect  you and then builds up the number of  people who are willing to hear you talk  about the assassination of dr martin  luther king jr or some other really  unpopular topic so i'm certain the vast  majority of people who saw that video  they watched it because they respect me  nobody has watched that video because  they're like oh i'd like to hear some  guy  talking about the assassination of  anybody anybody really you know no the  reality is there were people who've  heard me talk about politics for five  years  and they say oh okay if i if this guy if  eyes little is gonna speak on this topic  i'm interested enough right so that's a  video that only my core audience is  gonna appreciate my established audience  then you get into this interesting  contradictory  uh step-by-step process  of making videos that are either pitch  to your core audience or that reflect  your core mandate this sense of  uniqueness of having your own unique  voice of creating something so  meaningful that you still want to do it  if you fail etc etc and making videos  that reach out to viewers who've never  heard of you before who have no respect  for you who have no interest in what you  have to say you have no interest in you  my own channel the moderate success or  moderate failure that it is right why do  you think i made videos talking about  onision  if you don't know who an scn is don't  google it but you might be surprised to  learn that i have made many videos with  many thousands of views so i have one  video that i made according to this one  year ago i think it's closer to two  years ago that has 13 000 views about an  sdn it's a 14 minute long video  talking about the love life  of an isiah now that video is not stupid  it's not pandering it's not dumb i'm not  violating my sense of personal integrity  i'm not lowering my intellectual  standards to make that video but some  people even if it's five people  15 people out of the  13 000 people there are some people who  saw that video and thought whoa this guy  is really more interesting i clicked on  this video expecting a dumb video  gossiping about an issue and instead  this is what i got this is a really  interesting different perspective on  ethics or history or politics oh okay  i'm going to look at the front pages  youtube oh look at that he did a video  about the assassination of martin luther  king jr this could have happened today  by the way because the old videos stay  there and keep getting views someone  could have that experience today they  come to my channel they click on what  they think is going to be a shallow  gossip video it turns out to be a deep  and meaningful video i think oh okay i  have some intellectual respect to this  guy i have some curiosity in this guy  now i'm willing to listen to what he has  to say about martin luther king jr and  then they click on that video and maybe  they're horrified and they hate the  video they never come back again right  but in this way you are so here's a  great example frida is admitting she uh  one of the first videos she saw my  channel was me criticizing tim sheef  melissa and i were just talking about  tim sheef the other day right so you  know there i have made i have struggled  to make intelligent videos  about some incredibly stupid topics some  incredibly stupid topic  and criticizing incredibly stupid people  so you then get into this  self-contradictory herky-jerky balance  of creating uh content that is for your  core audience that reflects your core  mandate and content that is reaching out  to new audiences again and again and  again so that is it  you know the title of this video  reflects that is the way to succeed on  youtube  if  succeeding on youtube is what you really  want to do as we've said again and again  it's hard to be honest with yourself  it's hard to be honest with yourself  especially with something as bizarre as  saying to yourself  i want to make a video about an issue  i want to make a video about jacqueline  glenn  because i want people to respect me for  and take an interest in what i have to  say about aristotle what i have to say  about politics what i have to say about  history what i have to say about  philosophy it's the most  self-contradictory thing in the world  right but the point is  by the way another big example i know  there are people in my audience still to  this day because of the videos i made  about game of thrones if you don't know  what game of thrones is don't google it  you don't need to know right so i forget  my most successful video on that is has  many many uh thousands of views i can't  find it right now but anyway yeah so  there's there's one example wow my what  a title i have a video titled  a-s-o-i-a-f barbary dustin and jon  snow's father abandoned foreshadowing in  the plot what a title i mean so that's a  title only serious fans of the book  would have any idea what the hell this  this video is about what uh what a great  title i'm sorry it's unbel talk about  show business there i just gave you guys  the title okay so this more than 9 000  people saw this video right okay  why am i doing that okay the point is  i'm not going to lower my ethical  standards i'm not going to lower my  intellectual standards i'm not even  going to lower my emotional standards  what i mean by emotional standards you  could guys in some ways imagine i'm  going to make a video that's really  sincere and passionate about an issue  about jacqueline glenn about this book  about game of thrones about star wars  i have i mean if you guys don't know i  have made videos really philosophizing  about uh star wars about the mandalorian  okay this is an intentional strategy so  what uh over 5000 views that one  actually was a relative hit  so this is uh this is about start the  most recent star wars uh series the  mandalorian i got more than 5 000 people  to watch that video and maybe the vast  majority of them hated it or thought  nothing about it but a few people will  watch them think hey this is kind of an  unexpectedly intelligent or deep you  know  perspective on  star wars you know  and then they're gonna so  okay this is  the way uh to succeed on youtube and i  think it's what's hidden  within the success whether  again it's very hard to learn from  success right it's very easy to look at  the meteoric success of people where you  just see oh this person is successful  because they have a personality people  love them people are curious about them  they come to watch their youtube videos  because of their their personality well  yes after like a snowball going on the  hill after they've given a certain  degree of size a certain degree of  impetus okay yes at that stage that's  how it seems to be and that's how it is  but how did they build up that  engagement with that audience right it's  precisely by taking those kinds of risks  it's precisely by making videos about  it's by making content on the internet  about things that's challenging to you  in that way so we talked about the way  in which content creation can be  challenging intellectually  philosophically in terms of doing  research in terms of learning in terms  of getting out of your own comfort zone  taking on issues you're uncomfortable  with about being really honest and  challenging yourself in all kinds of  ways emotionally intellectually  in terms of creativity too okay so we've  already talked about that right but it's  also a challenge to try to reach out to  audiences that are strange to you for  you to try to make a video saying hey  i'm going to reach out to the game of  thrones fans i'm going to reach out to  the star wars fans i'm going to reach  out to i did a bunch of videos talking  about transgender issues  i know you might you might not see it  this way but for me that's what it is  i'm reaching out to a new audience i'm  saying hey i think there's a small  number of people who are kind of  critical about social and political  issues who are watching this stuff about  transgender politics i am not an expert  on transgender issues i'm going to  challenge myself and get out of my  comfort zone zone all these ways and  more and i'm going to step into the ring  and say what i have to say about about  transgender politics and this is  challenging yourself to reach out to to  new audiences you have to admit to  yourself what you want  you have to admit yourself the series of  things we've already reviewed and then  you have to  uh deal with the question of  what are you willing to do to get it  because as important as it is to be true  to yourself and be true to your audience  think about your core audience think  about your core message think about  what's uniquely yours to say what is it  you can talk about nobody else can talk  about if i don't make this video nobody  else is going to nobody else is going to  speak on this issue the way only i can  nobody else is going to deliver this  message and and if you don't have  something like that go out and get your  hands dirty and get something get some  perspective that's worth changing you  know what i mean i mean there's all this  stuff in my life i feel like i have to  share but you know whatever i may be  delusional and you may be delusional too  but you know  that is important that's the most  important thing and that's what makes  youtube worth doing even if you fail and  fail and fail and never succeed that is  important but then if you've admitted to  yourself that what you want is to be  successful what you want to do is have a  larger audience right then there's this  question of  what are you willing to do to reach out  to that larger audience are you willing  to challenge yourself and challenge your  viewers by taking that extra step by by  getting uncomfortable  whether that's dealing with  something as ostensibly shallow as  gossip about an issue and gospel of  jacqueline glenn the new star wars movie  the new star wars tv show it's a  challenge to say something meaningful  about a seemingly uh meaningless topic  to take on that challenge also and say  oh well if you don't want to do this as  a hobby if you want to do this as a  career if you want a larger audience are  you willing to commit 10 hours a week  what's going to be 20 hours a week as a  job as a filmmaker to take seriously  that part of the game reaching out to  new audiences all the time and knowing  that with every single video like that  no matter how successful at least 90 of  the people will hate you and hate your  channel and never want to watch your  videos again out of the 5 000 people who  watch that video about uh  the star wars tv show the mandalorian  do you think it's even one percent or  two percent who became fans of my  youtube channel out of the 6 000 people  uh 6 300 people who watch my youtube  video jacqueline glenn colon the lowest  of the low  how many of those people even agreed  with me how many of those people thought  oh this is somebody with an intelligent  perspective and looked at other videos  right you are going to be hated and  rejected not by 50 of the viewers where  you're reaching out to a new audience  it's gonna be like 98  of those people but each time you make  that effort and reach out there are  going to be a few people who are  intelligent enough or who recognize  something in your content who recognize  something new and say oh  you know oh i now i'm willing to listen  to what this guy has to say about the  assassination of of martin luther king  and then bit by bit you build a  meaningful relationship with an audience  and for that audience however big or  however small your videos are part of  them leading a meaningful life  [Music]  you